# **Things learnt from this project**

## **General Thoughts**

I feel like this project has wrapped up most of the skills I have learnt in website development so far from the Udemy course, which is purely based on HTML and CSS. The website is of course, not that visually appealing or meaningful; however, I did feel quite happy to learn and apply skills like CSS animated text on page1-3, as well as further dive into flex display and for the first time, adding on responsive CSS features to automatically adjust my website for different sized screens.

Skill-wise, I think I am now capable of using HTML tags correctly and effectively for most use-case, with definitely spaces of improvement available and need to be made, in terms of my code-length and managing content duplications. For CSS, I feel like doing this project certainly helped to bring my knowledge from the online course into application, with all the new CSS skills & tricks I have learnt along the way noted down in the section below.

It’s also interesting for me to realise that CSS is equally time-consuming to find and fix bugs just like when I was doing the competitive programming problems a while back, and doing CSS for a project is quite an opportunity to improve my patience when continuously seeing the website displays weirdly-organised contents where before running, I have strong belief that my code is correct and already imagined the greatness of the content that is about to appear. These errors enforces me to form a stronger bond with Stack Overflow and W3School, and made the moment where the code actually works feel especially satisfying.

## **Some CSS I have learnt through this project:**

- **Inserting a new font from a website** through creating a `<link href="font link" rel="stylesheet">`, with that placed inside the `<head>` section of the file above the internal CSS `<style>` tag; insert the `font-family` descriptions given by Google Fonts into `body{}` inside the `<style>` section, when applying that font to every word of the website like what I have done. I used Roboto for the homepage, as design-wise it improves the overall neatness and readability than the VSCode default font.
- **Make the border and padding a part of the element** through `box-sizing: border-box` , which becomes useful when using display methods like flex and grid to define its size, so the element(box) won't exceed the space it has been assigned to.
- **Adding display effect to links through** `a:link{text-decoration:none}`. I have added some hovering animation effects to these texts.
- **Display the first letter of a paragraph in a newspaper style** using `p::first-letter{float left}`. It is used for the content section of this site.
- **Make parts of the website responsive** so it automatically adjusts its size depending on the user's screen size, by adding `@media (max-width: px) and (min-width: px)` I have set
- **CSS Flexbox concepts** like how `flex-basis` distributes portions of the website to that element, `justify-content` and `align-items` adjusts the position of elements horizontally and vertically, and `flex-wrap:wrap` moves the content into a new line within its box when there is insufficient amount of space in that line to fit in the content. I have used flex for the food-culture and content section of the homepage, as so far my website is only one dimension and I think flex suits the layout more than grid.
- **Sticky Positioning** allows elements to stay in relative positions until it is certain pixels away from the `top` of the page been displayed, where upon then it gets converted into a fixed position. I have applied this positioning for the "Food Cultural" bar to make it more convenient for users, as they can jump directly into certain sections of the homepage without any scrolling.

I have also gained a deeper practical understanding of CSS animations, such as how `word-wrap: break-word` seperates the word into individual characters when there aren't enough space to display the whole word in the same line, which I have applied to all the text-animations on this site; and also features like `transform: translate()`to move around the elements, `text-transform: uppercase` to make everything uppercase etc. Of course, these are some very fundamental CSS concepts but it has been a fun experience for me to bring these techniques into applications and to further improve the visual outlook of my site.
